Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions used to produce various kinds of output.
Programming languages are used in computer programming to create programs that implement specific algorithms.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.1- compiler: it convert source codes into bytecode,
  2- JVM: it load and verify than execute the code (jit),


What is IDE?
A.A Java IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a software application which enables users
to more easily write and debug Java programs.
Many IDEs provide features like syntax highlighting and code completion, which help the user to code more easily.
ex: eclipse, intelliJ.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
for java eclipse, intelliJ and NetBeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
=>EDITOR (rite source code ). => COMPILER( source code into bytecode). => JVM ( load verify execute the bytecode).
=> rain in operating system.

what is class?
A class is the basic building block of an object-oriented language such as Java is a template that
describes the data and behavior associated with instances of that class.

What is object?
An object is a software bundle of variables and related methods.

What is the entry point of an application?
the entry point of an application is a main method.

Why main is static?
to make it  accessible by JVM.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
it is java.length.Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
CLASSPATH is the path for Java application where the classes you compiled will be available.
The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that PATH is an environment variable which is used to
locate JDK binaries like "java" or "javac" command used to run java program and compile java source file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations.
 A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
NO. so to use an interface we need implement it and the abstract class we need to extend it.

what is Access Specifier?
Java Access Specifiers (also known as Visibility Specifiers ) regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object Oriented Programming.
1-Abstraction
  Abstraction is the concept of hiding the internal details and describing things in simple terms. For example,
  a method that adds two integers. The internal processing of the method is hidden from the outer world.
  There are many ways to achieve abstraction in object-oriented programmings, such as encapsulation and inheritance.

2-Encapsulation is the technique used to implement abstraction in object-oriented programming. Encapsulation is
  used for access restriction to class members and methods.
3-Polymorphism is the concept where an object behaves differently in different situations. There are two
  types of polymorphism – compile time polymorphism and runtime polymorphism.
4-Inheritance is the object oriented programming concept where an object is based on another object. Inheritance is
  the mechanism of code reuse. The object that is getting inherited is called superclass and the object that
  inherits the superclass is called subclass.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Package in Java is a mechanism to encapsulate a group of classes, sub packages and interfaces.
java.length is the one imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Application programming interface.
class, scanner, BufferedReader, FileReader, string, arraylist, linkedlist, hushmap,

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
no. because we use just one super class not multiple.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name,
but using different argument lists.
it happens at compiling time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
An exception is an unwanted or unexpected event, which occurs during the execution of a program i.e at run time,
that disrupts the normal flow of the program’s instructions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
static is a non-access modifier in Java.
static to a variable => it comes with the last value we assigned to that variable
static to method => we can use the method without creating object

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
 final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.
 variables => constant variable.
 method => prevent method overriding.

What is final, finally and finalize?
-final:  is a reserved  keyword used in variables methods and classes. declare The value of variable cannot be
changed once initialized.The class cannot be sub classed. The method cannot be overridden by a subclass.
-finally: is a reserved keyword is used in association with a try/catch block and guarantees that a section of code
will be executed, even if an exception is thrown.
-finalize:it'sa java.lang.Object. it is used to called by the garbage collector on an object when garbage collection
determines that there are no more references to the object. A subclass overrides the finalize method to dispose of
system resources or to perform other cleanup

What is a constructor ?
In Java, a constructor is a block of codes similar to the method. It is called when an instance of the object is
created, and memory is allocated for the object.
It is a special type of method which is used to initialize the object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
empty(default) constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
super is a keyword. It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A Java virtual machine (JVM) is a virtual machine that enables a computer to run Java programs as well as
programs written in other languages that are also compiled to Java bytecode

Is JVM platform independent?
no.

What version of java are you using?
java 8.
What is JAR stand for ?
JAR (Java ARchive)file allows Java runtimes to efficiently deploy an entire application, including its classes and
their associated resources, in a single request

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is a specification that provides runtime environment
in which java bytecode can be executed.
JDK is an acronym for Java Development Kit.It physically exists.It contains JRE + development tools.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime environment.It is the implementation of
JVM.It physically exists.It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime.

What is compile time and run time?
compile time: convert source code to bytecode
run time: execute  the bytecode so it comes after compile time.

What is heap?
heap is a part of the 3 part in RAM. heap is a part of the 3 part in RAM.

How java manage it's memory?
The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory (this includes allocating memory from the
Operating System (OS), managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects) and finally
provides the runtime environment.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuider are mutable classes.
StringBuffer is thread safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not, thats why StringBuilder is more faster
than StringBuffer.
String concat + operator internally uses StringBuffer or StringBuilder class.
For String manipulations in non-multi threaded environment, we should use StringBuilder else use StringBuffer class.

What is Singleton class?
a singleton class is a class that can have only one object

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or
database or can be sent through streams. The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is
called deserialization.

when to use transient variable in java?
The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that serialization process of such
class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any instance of that class.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
verification and execution time.
The most important difference between while and do-while loop is that in do-while , the block of code is
executed at least once, even though the condition given is false.
In While loop, the condition is first tested and then the block of code is executed if the test result is true.

What is Enum?
it is a special class ho use constants variables.
An enum type is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants.

What is Iterator?
Iterators are used in Collection framework in Java to retrieve elements one by one

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
integer will take more memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool. Another reason
of why String class is immutable could die due to HashMap. Since Strings are very popular as HashMap key,
it's important for them to be immutable so that they can retrieve the value object which was stored in HashMap.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?

What is JIT stands for?
just in time its a compiler ho compile programs just if we want to use (when you need it)

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for
maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource
with multiple threads in Java

What is Framework?
is a platform for developing software applications.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
JUnit, REST Assured, Selenium, TestNG, Robot Framework...

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
testNG is more resent and have more features.

What are the dependencies for this project?
jeson
mongo
mysql
testNJ
JAVAX
javajeson
mysql
what is dependency injection in java?
is a technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies the dependencies of another object. ... In Java, before
we can use methods of other classes, we first need to create the object of that class (i.e. class A needs to
create an instance of class B).

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime. private , final and
static methods and variables use static binding and are bonded by compiler while virtual methods are bonded during
runtime based upon runtime object.








