Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:


why do we need data structure?
Data structure are the way we use for organizing and storing data.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
on data structures we can add, modify, delete data.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
  -Compiler Design,
  -Operating System,
  -Database Management System,
  -Statistical analysis package,
  -Numerical Analysis,
  -Graphics,
  -Artificial Intelligence,
  - Simulation.

what is an Array?
An array is a container object that can stock or holds a fixed number of values of a same single type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
the difference is in array the number of value is fixed but not in array list.

what is LinkedList?
LinkedList is a class ho uses a doubly linked list to store elements(values). It provides a linked-list data structure.
It inherits the AbstractList class and implements List and Deque interfaces.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
In array, each element is independent and can be accessed using it's index value. In case of a linked list,
each element points to the next, previous, or maybe both nodes.

what is queue?
Queue is an  interface(data structure), providing first in, first out  (FIFO) and last in last out(lilo).
it is implemented by linkedlist.

what is stack?
A Stack is a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure. It supports two basic operations called push and pop.
The push operation adds an element at the top of the stack, and the pop operation removes an element from
the top of the stack.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO= first in first out.
LIFO= last in first out.

what is the order of complexity?
Algorithmic complexity is concerned about how fast or slow particular algorithm performs. it define time taken
by an algorithm without depending on the implementation details.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
-Best case is the function which performs the minimum number of steps on input data of n elements.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
-Worst case is the function which performs the maximum number of steps on input data of size n.

what is tree in data structure?
A tree is a nonlinear data structure, compared to arrays, linked lists, stacks and queues which are linear
data structures. A tree can be empty with no nodes or a tree is a structure consisting of one node called the
root and zero or one or more subtrees.

what is graph in data structure?
A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges. The nodes are sometimes also
referred to as vertices and the edges are lines or arcs that connect any two nodes in the graph

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
There are several differences between HashMap and Hashtable in Java: Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not.
This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications, as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than
synchronized ones.  HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

How HashMap works in java?
HashMap in Java works on hashing principle. It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve it in
constant time O(1) provided we know the key. In hashing, hash functions are used to link key and value in HashMap.
Objects are stored by calling put(key, value) method of HashMap and retrieved by calling get(key) method. When we
call put method, hashcode() method of the key object is called so that hash function of the map can find a bucket
location to store value object, which is actually an index of the internal array, known as the table

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
when a value(index) is negative or greater than or equal to the length of the array being indexed.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
There are multiple ways to copy elements from one array in Java e.g. you can manually copy elements by using a loop,
 create a clone of the array, use Arrays.copyOf() method or System.arrayCopy() to start copying elements from
 one array to another in Java.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
The major difference between Array and Linked list regards to their structure. Arrays are index based data structure
where each element associated with an index. ... Furthermore, the link field holds the address of the next data item
in the linked list. The address used to access a particular node is known as a pointer.

What is DFS and BFS?
The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and
searching a node in a graph. They can also be used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.

What is Recursion?
Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.
A method that uses this technique is recursive. Many programming problems can be solved only by recursion,
and some problems that can be solved by other techniques are better solved by recursion.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Key Differences Between Linear and Non-linear Data Structure
In the linear data structure, the data is organized in a linear order in which elements are linked one after the other.
As against, in the non-linear data structure the data elements are not stored in a sequential manner rather the elements
are hierarchically related.
The traversing of data in the linear data structure is easy as it can make all the data elements to be traversed in one
 go, but at a time only one element is directly reachable. On the contrary, in the non-linear data structure, the nodes
  are not visited sequentially and cannot be traversed in one go.
Data elements are adjacently attached in the linear data structure, which means only two elements can be linked to two
other elements while this is not the case in the non-linear data structure where one data element can be connected to numerous other elements.
The linear data structures are easily implemented relative to the non-linear data structure.
A single level of elements is incorporated in the linear data structure. Conversely, non-linear data structure involves multiple levels.
Examples of the linear data structure are array, queue, stack, linked list, etc. In contrast, tree and graph are the examples of the non-linear data structure.
The memory is utilized efficiently in the non-linear data structure where linear data structure tends to waste the memory.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Definition: A theoretical measure of the execution of an algorithm, usually the time or memory needed, given the problem
size n, which is usually the number of items. Informally, saying some equation f(n) = O(g(n)) means it is less than some
 constant multiple of g(n). The notation is read, "f of n is big oh of g of n".

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

-Bubble Sort
-Insertion Sort
-Heap Sort

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


